The Project Gutenberg eBook of The irritated people, by Ray Bradbury

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The irritated people

Author: Ray Bradbury

Release Date: December 9, 2022 [eBook #69506]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE IRRITATED PEOPLE ***





                         The Irritated People

                            By RAY BRADBURY

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Thrilling Wonder Stories December 1947.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Charles Crossley, President of American Jet-Propelled Ships, felt
himself spread-eagled in his favorite living room chair. The voice
on the televisor moaned. Europe. Crossley twitched. Secret atomic
factories. Crossley jerked. Semi-dictatorships. Crossley sweated.
Political pressures. War. Crossley writhed.

His wife shut the televisor off indignantly. "Nonsense!" She stared
at her limp husband. "Tri-Union hasn't any weapons, we haven't any,
neither has Russia, Britain or anyone else. That was all settled and
forbidden ages ago. When was it? 1960?"

Crossley stroked his receding hairline, sighing. "They're making atom
bombs in secret," he said. He littered the rug with cigar ash.

"Stop that!" cried his wife. "My nice rug!"

"The rug, oh, the confounded rug," he said, and muttered away, closing
his eyes for a long minute. Then he opened one eye. He looked at his
wife. He looked at the rug, the cigar in his hand, the fallen ashes.

"The rug?" He shut his eyes again. Five minutes later he leaped up with
an explosion of sound. "The rug! I've got it! I've _got_ it!" He
seized his wife, kissed her. "You _are_ brilliant! I love you!
That's it, that _is_ it!"

He rushed madly off in the general direction of Europe!

Thus began the Tri-Union-American war of the year 1989.

The small jet-propelled ship crossed the Atlantic in fiery gusts. In
it was Charles Crossley, a man with an idea. Behind it three thousand
other ships tore along, putting space behind. They were his ships. They
belonged to his company. He employed the men. This was his own private
war.

"Ha!" Mr. Crossley laughed quite obviously.

The radio cut in on him. "Crossley?"

Crossley answered. "Speaking."

"This is the President, Crossley." The voice was sharp, and it fairly
heated the interior of the ship. "Turn back, in the name of common
sense. What _are_ you up to! I'll seize your company!"

"This can't wait, Mr. President. We've been sweating it out for months.
The Tri-Union won't admit it's setting up a fascistic skeleton in
Europe, we can't find any proof they are, but there are rumors. We've
got to get it out in the open. We can't wait. I'm sorry I have to act
alone. Bombardiers?"

"Ready!" Three thousand voices.

"Crossley!" shouted the President, far away.

"Here comes Vienna!" Crossley jerked his hand down. "Bombloads,
release!"

"Release!" Three thousand voices.

"Crossley!" The President.

"Bang!" said Crossley.

Pink confetti tumbled down through the clear cool summer air. Tons
and tons of pink, whirling confetti! Confetti by the bombload, three
thousand cargoes of very pink, very fine confetti!

[Illustration: Pink confetti tumbled down through the air.]

"And to think," mused Crossley happily, as he turned his ship homeward,
"to think the entire idea came from spilling ashes on the rug! Hi-ho!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The President of the United States shook his fist.

"You bombed them!"

Crossley yawned. "There is no law against dropping waste paper," he
said, quietly.

"You attacked the people of the Tri-Union states!"

"No one injured," said Crossley, calmly. "No explosions, no bruises, no
fatalities. Did anybody even get a piece of confetti in his eye? The
answer is no. A two letter word."

Crossley lit a cigarette. "Fifty thousand housefraus and one hundred
thousand children swept sidewalks. Men flooded employment offices
in Vienna for street sweeper jobs. But, ah, that clever, devilish
confetti! It was electrically and chemically impregnated. It vanished
when touched by human hands. It reappeared when humans withdrew from
the immediate vicinity. Brooms helped little. When disturbed the
confetti had a curious habit of jumping like tiddle-de-winks or jumping
beans. Sensitive little things. I dare say it'll be some weeks before
Vienna is clean. That is what I have done to the Tri-Union. The World
Organization forbids an attack. Was this an attack, sir? Confetti on
the wind? Eh?"

"The World Organization forbids war!" cried the President.

"This is not war." Crossley leaned forward, tapped the desk earnestly.
"Suppose we dropped confetti every day, causing the Tri-Union
population to pluck and curry their lawns 365 days a year? And there
are _other_ things we can do, Mr. President. Little, irritating
things. Imagine it, Mr. President, will you?"

The President imagined it for quite awhile. Then, slowly, he began to
smile.

It was a sweet day, a morning in the Tri-Union state of Bruegher. The
sky was blue, the clouds were nicely white. And upon the rolling green
hills a picnic was spread, with thousands of tossed paper napkins,
hundreds of bread heels, crusts, can openers, sardine tins, dropped
eggs and wadded cardboard cartons. The picnic, like a river of several
thousand parts, engulfed the park-like hills. One small boy running
through the dells paused to leave his semi-digested lunch.

Laughter. Wine bottles gurgling! Songs!

The President of the United States and Mr. Crossley clinked glasses,
heading the picnic, drank gustily, refilled, drank again. Others
yelled, screamed in delight, played tag, threw away bottles!

And on twenty thousand other Tri-Union hills twenty thousand other
small family ships landed. Twenty thousand more picnic riots began.
Sixty thousand napkins, well wadded, were dropped from wiped lips! One
hundred thousand shattered egg shells were spilled! Sixty thousand
shiny soup cans were left gleaming in the sun. Three hundred million
ants rushed out to welcome them. And the 30 million people of Greater
Bruegher glared at the invasion, knowing not what to do. What was the
world coming to?

At nightfall, the last little boy had emptied himself of his brackish
contents, the last little girl plucked bawling from a poison ivy nest,
the last sardine dispatched, the last beer bottle left a foamy vacuum.

Flying away into the night, the American invaders sent back their war
cry which sounded remarkably like, and probably was, a belch.

General Krauss, personal representative of Brugh, the new semi-dictator
of Europe, shouted out of the televisor:

"Mr. President, you, _you_ were seen, by reliable witnesses, to
peel an egg and, bit by bit, throw the shell under a one hundred year
old linden tree!"

Crossley and the President stood together in the White House inner
sanctum. The President spoke:

"Krauss, the peace laws specify no nation may manufacture weapons for
killing, wounding or destruction of another's national populace or
property. We are helpless to attack you, therefore. All the while, you,
in secret, make weapons--"

"You can't prove that!"

"--make weapons," said the President, grimly. "So, in last recourse, we
use weapons which are no weapons at all. We have destroyed nothing and
no one."

"Ah-hah!" Krauss' eyes snapped on the visor. His face vanished. A new
scene replaced it, showing a green meadow. Krauss' voice crackled
behind it, in comment. "Property damage to Greater Bruegher! Listen!
Rough estimate! Sixty-five thousand ants, large and small, both black
and red, biting and non-biting, were trodden on at your picnic!"

The scene dissolved to yet another.

"Hark! Ten million grass-blades. Approximately. Ten million trampled
and crushed. Two thousand pretty flowers. Picked!"

"That was an error," apologized Crossley. "The children got out of
hand."

"Two thousand flowers," repeated Krauss savagely. "_Picked!_"

       *       *       *       *       *

Krauss took time to get hold of himself. He cleared his throat and
continued.

"Approximately thirty billion atomic particles of wood brushed off
Great Bruegher sycamores, oaks, elms and lindens by adults playing tree
tag--AND--sixty million particles scraped from Greater Bruegher fences
by young men escaping angered Greater Bruegher bulls. AND! And--" he
thundered. The scene dissolved once more, and a most interesting view
was revealed. "And--sixteen thousand cubic feet of A-1, first class
forest moss crushed, rolled upon and otherwise malpracticed by young
lovers idling in the thickets! There you are! The proof! The proof!
This is war!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The first Tri-Union airships flew over New York a week later. From
them, on parachutes, little yellow boxes floated.

Crossley, in his garden resting, preparing new methods of attack on the
enemy, was astonished as one of the devices hovered by the red brick
garden wall.

"A bomb!" he cried, and leaped into the house, sorry he had started
this infernal war.

Edith, his wife, peered from the rear window.

"Oh, come back," she said. "It's only a radio."

They listened. Music. Blues music.

"From back in the Mad Forties, when I wore pigtails," said Edith.

"Hmm," said Crossley.

The music, if such it could be called, concerned a lady afflicted with
"--I got those mad about him, glad about him, but I get so sad about
him bah-looze!"

"Interesting," said Crossley.

"Yes," she said.

The song ended. They waited.

The song began again.

"Is that all it plays?" said Edith. "I don't see any dials to change
the record with."

"_Oh_, oh," said Crossley and shut his eyes. "I think I begin to
see the light--"

The song ended and started a third time.

"That's what I expected," said Crossley. "Here, give me a hand."

The song flowed into its fourth, fifth and sixth renditions as they
poked at the dangling machine. It dodged--like a hummingbird.
"Radar-sensitives," gasped Crossley, giving up. "Oh, pfui!"

Edith covered her ears with her hands. "Oh, Charles," she said.

They went in the house and shut the door tight and shut the windows
tighter. Nevertheless, the music penetrated.

After dinner, Crossley looked at Edith and said:

"What do _you_ make it?"

She counted on her fingers. "This next time will be the one hundred and
thirteenth repeat," she said.

"That's what I counted," said he, handing her wads of cotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

He worked feverishly that evening. He made plans for war using
confetti, toothpaste tubes that refused to function, a chemical that
dulled razors with the first scrape, and--mmm, let me see....

His young son, age twelve, was doing his homework in the next room.

"Oblivious to that awful music," said Crossley in admiration. "Kids are
marvels, can concentrate anywhere." He crept up on his son, looked over
his shoulder.

The boy was writing a composition:

"Poe authored The Cask of Amontillado, Masque of the Red Death, and I
Got Those Mad About Him, Glad About Him, But I Get So Sad About Him--"

"Blues," said Crossley. He turned. "Edith! Pack the suitcases! We're
leaving home!"

They piled into the family helicopter. As the helicopter lifted into
the sky, Crossley's small son said, looking down at the music box in
the garden, "Two hund-derth time!"

Crossley hit him.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was useless to flee. The hovering radios were everywhere, bawling.
They were in the air and on the ground and under bridges.

They could not be shot down; they dodged. And the music played on.

Edith glared at her husband who was somewhat responsible for all this.
His son tentatively eyed Crossley's shins for kicking.

Crossley called the President.

"YOU!" screamed the President. "CROSSLEY!"

"Mr. President, I can _explain_!"

So the war progressed. The World Organization hunched forward tensely
awaiting the moment when either side got off bounds, fired a shot or
committed a murder. But--

Normal civilized pursuits continued. Imports and exports flowed, foods,
clothing, raw materials were exchanged.

If either country had broken relations, made guns, knives, grenades,
the World Organization would have leaped in. But not a gun was
fashioned, not a knife sharpened. There were no murders, wounded, or
bruised. The World Organization was helpless. There was no war.

Well, almost none.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Heinrich!"

"Yes, my wife?"

"Come look at this mirror!"

Heinrich, chief deputy of the police department in a Greater Bruegher
village, came slopping in his easy slippers, holding his clay pipe like
a small tame bird in his hand.

Heinrich looked into a mirror that was ridiculous, like at a carnival.

"What has happened to it over night?" he wondered. "Look at me. Ha,
I look like an idiot!" He chuckled. "My face stretches like rubber,
shivers, is distorted. Well. The mirror is warped."

"_You_ are warped!" shouted his wife. "Do something about it!"

"I will buy a new one. In the meantime, the one upstairs--"

"Is also warped!" she snapped. "How will I get my hat on straight, or
see if my lipstick is drawn fine, or my powder neat? Clumsy idiot,
hurry and fetch a new one! Go, get, rush!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Crossley had his orders. Find a way out. Or arrange a truce. If these
next attacks by the United States did not produce results the United
States must bargain for peace. Peace, yes. Peace from that abominable
woman singing the abominable blues twenty times an hour, night and
day. The American Public would hold the line as long as possible, said
the President, but time was short and puncturing everybody's eardrums
seemed a most unlikely way out. Crossley was to get in there, and pitch.

Crossley pitched. His jet plane streaked over Europe in the great
offensive. Three thousand bombloads of something or other were dropped,
at his order, and then the three thousand company ships curved and shot
home. He lingered on, cruising the length of Europe, awaiting results.

He got them.

A large, unseeable beam took hold of his ship and drew it steadily
down into the dark mountains of Greater Bruegher.

"Well," said Crossley. "Adventure."

       *       *       *       *       *

The entire capture was quiet, convivial. When he stepped from his
grounded craft he was politely escorted into a city of ultra-modern
buildings and avenues between the mountains, and there, in a small
edifice, in a small room, he met his enemy.

Krauss sat behind a desk as Crossley entered. Crossley nodded and bowed.

"Hello, Krauss. You'll be prosecuted for kidnapping."

"You're free to go any time," snapped Krauss. "This is an interview.
Sit."

The chair was shaped like a low pyramid. You could sit, but you slid in
all directions. The ceiling, where Crossley was expected to sit, was
very low. He had to choose between back-ache or slithering around on a
pyramidal chair. He chose to slither.

Krauss reached over and pinched Crossley.

"Ouch!" said Crossley.

Krauss did it again.

"Stop that!" said Crossley.

"All right," said Krauss.

Under Crossley, the chair exploded.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gibbering, Crossley leapt up. He banged his head on the ceiling. He
held his back end with one hand, the head with the other.

"Mr. Crossley, shall we talk of peace?"

"Yeah," said Crossley, bent over. "When you stop making secret weapons.
Otherwise, more confetti, more picnics and pigs-knuckles."

"And more music in America, ah, Mr. Crossley?"

Another pinch.

"Ow! We can stand the music long enough to use our next weapon. We
always did have it over you stuffed-shirts over here. You were the
inventors of psychological warfare, but we gave it a few improvements."

"Can one improve over music, Mr. Crossley?"

"We'll find a way. Ouch. Keep that away from me!"

"I'll detail our plans, Crossley. First, an oversupply of mosquitoes,
in America. _Hungry ones._ Then, a chemical which causes all men's
shoes to squeak with each step. Third, electrical pulses to make alarm
clocks ring an hour early each morn--"

Crossley was professionally interested.

"Not bad. All within the Peace Rules. All harmless. Mmm, except those
mosquitoes."

"Merely skin irritatives."

"Still, the World Org might rule against it."

"Out with the mosquitoes, then!"

"Ouch."

"Did I _hurt_ you? Sorry. Well, let us see if we can hurt you a
bit more. This paper on my desk. It is a radio report of your death
five minutes ago. Your plane crashed, says the report. I have only to
broadcast it, and then make sure you 'live' up to the facts contained
therein. You see?"

Crossley grinned. "I'm to report to the President every hour. No
report, immediate World Org investigation. Do _you_ see?"

"Your plane crashed."

"No soap. The Brindly-Connors motors never conk. And the new
reactive-propellants on my ships prevent bad landings. So."

Krauss fidgeted. "We'll think of _some_ way."

"It's time for me to phone the President; may I?"

"Here." A phone was handed him.

Crossley took the phone. Electricity shot up his arm, into his chest.

"Jeepers!" He dropped the thing. "I'll report you!"

"You have no proof. We both play this irritation game, do we not? Go
ahead. The phone."

This time, Crossley got the President:

"Crossley, you've heard the news, have you?"

"What news, sir?"

"The chewing gum, you moron, the chewing gum!"

"In the streets, sir?"

The President groaned. "In the streets, the roofs, the dog's fur, the
cars, the shrubs, everywhere! Big as golf-balls. And sticky!"

Krauss gloated, listening.

Crossley said, "Courage, Mr. President. Use the croquet hoops."

"Croquet hoops?" Krauss seized Crossley's arm.

"Invisible croquet hoops," Crossley smiled.

"No." Krauss triumphed. "People will stumble, be hurt, even killed by
them. The Word Org would stop you!"

"Oh," said Crossley. His face fell. "Look, Mr. President. About those
hoops. Forget them. Proceed with Plan 40 and 45 instead."

Another phone rang. Krauss picked it up, answered it.

_Your wife, Herr Krauss._

"All right, put her on."

"I'm okay, Mr. President. Had a little engine trouble."

"What!"

_Darling, the most terrible trouble!_

"Katrina, I have no time. There is much to do."

_This is important, you fool! It's horrible!_

"Well, what is it, my liebschen? I'm busy."

"Answer me, Crossley, were you shot down?"

"Not exactly, Mr. President. They're trying to figure out a way to kill
me. Haven't hit on one yet."

"Mr. Crossley, please, not so loud, I can't hear my wife talking. Yes,
darling?"

_Hans, Hans, I have dandruff!_

"Say that again, I have so much noise here, Katrina."

"I'll call you again in an hour, Mr. President."

_Dandruff, Hans, dandruff. A thousand, five thousand flakes on my
shoulders!_

"You call to tell me this, woman? Good-bye!"

BANG!

       *       *       *       *       *

Crossley and Krauss hung up in unison, Krauss on his wife, Crossley on
the President.

"Where were we?" said Krauss, sweating.

"You were going to kill me. Remember?"

Again the phone. Krauss swore and answered. "What?"

_Hans, I've gained ten pounds!_

"Why do you insist on calling to tell me these things?"

_Mrs. Leiber, Mrs. Krenschnitz and Mrs. Schmidst, they too have
gained ten pounds!_

"Oh?" Krauss hung up, blinking. "So." He glared at Crossley. "That's
what it is. All right, Crossley, we, also, can be subtle. Doctor!"

A door slid open in the wall. There stood an evil looking rascal,
sleeves rolled high, testing a hypodermic on his own emaciated arm,
enjoying it. He looked up at Crossley and said:

"Practice."

"Get him!" cried Krauss.

Everybody jumped on Crossley.

       *       *       *       *       *

Darkness.

"How do you feel, Crossley?"

How was he supposed to feel? All right, he guessed. He lifted himself
from a kind of operating table and looked at the doctor and at Krauss.

"Here Doctor," said Krauss. "Explain to Mr. Crossley what he may expect
ten years from now."

"Ten years?" said Crossley in alarm.

The doctor placed his thin fingers together, bowing. He whispered
daintily.

"Ten years from now you may expect a--ah--little trouble. It will
commence one year from now. Unobtrusively. Here or there a slight
gastric upset, a cardiac disturbance, a minor intra-irritation of the
lung sacs. Occasionally, a headache. A sallowness to the complexion, an
earache, perhaps."

Crossley began to sweat. He held onto his knees.

The doctor continued, slowly, pleased with himself.

"Then, as the years pass, a small flicker, like bird wings, of
the heart. A pain, as if stabbed in the groin. A twitching of the
peritoneum. A hot sweating, late of nights, drenching your bedclothes.
Insomnia. Night after night, cigarette after cigarette, headache after
headache."

"That'll do," said Crossley bleakly.

"No, no." The doctor waved his hypodermic. "I'm not finished. Temporary
blindness. I almost forgot that. Yes, temporary blindness. Fuzzy
lights in your head. Voices. Paralysis of the lower limbs. Then, your
heart, in one last explosion, lasting ten days, will beat itself into
a bruised pulp. And you'll die, exactly--" he consulted a mental
calendar, "--ten years, five months and fourteen days from today."

The silence in the room was touched only by Crossley's ragged
breathing. He tried to lift himself, shivered, fell back.

"Best of all, there will be no evidence of what we have done to you,"
said Krauss. "Certain hormones and molecular impurities were put into
your body. No analysis now or after death would reveal them. Your
health will simply fail. We will not be held responsible. Clever, is it
not?"

The doctor said, "You may go now. Now that we have fixed you, like a
time-bomb, to die later, you are free to go. We would not want to kill
you here, that would make us responsible. But, ten years from now, in
another place, how can that be due to us?"

The phone. "Your wife, Herr Krauss."

_My hair is falling out!_

"Now, now, be patient, my wife."

_My skin is yellowing! Do something!_

"I will be home in an hour."

_There will be no home here, then, YOU!_

"We must go on to Victory, my sweet."

_Not on a path strewn with my golden, golden hair!_

"Yes, my wife, I will say hello to the doctor for you."

_Hans, don't you dare hang up on me. Don't you_--

Krauss sat down, fluttering his hands weakly. "My wife called me to say
all is well."

"Ha," said Crossley, weakly.

Krauss reached over and pinched him.

"Ouch."

"There," said Krauss. "Speak when you're spoken to."

Crossley stood up, laughing. The doctor looked at him as if he were
insane.

"I've got it. I'm going to commit suicide!"

"You're crazy," said Krauss.

"Ten years from now I die, so why not commit suicide here, thus
bringing an investigation by the World Organization, eh, Mr. Krauss?"

"You can't do that!" said Krauss, dumb-founded. "I won't permit it!"

"I'll jump off a building, perhaps. You can't hold me here for more
than another hour or the Organization will come to see what ticks. And
the minute you let me go, I'll jump off a building."

"No!"

"Or crash my ship, purposely, on the way home. Why not? What've I to
live for? And if it causes your trial, so much the better. Yes, I've
decided. I'll die."

"We'll hold him here," said the doctor to Krauss.

"We can't," said Krauss.

"Release him," said the doctor.

"Don't be silly," said Krauss.

"Kill him!"

"Sillier still," gasped Krauss. "Oh, this is terrible."

"Which way," said Crossley, "to the tallest building in town?"

"You go down to the next corner--" said the doctor and stopped. "No.
Stop. We must stop him."

"Get out of the way," said Crossley. "Here I go."

"But this is preposterous," screamed Krauss. "Doctor, we must think of
something!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Women sobbed in the streets, their hair trembling in their hands,
detached from their heads. Puddles formed wherever women met to weep.
See, see, my beautiful hair, fallen! _Your_ hair, you butcher's
mate; what of mine? Mine! Yours was hempen rope, a horse's tail! But
mine, ach, mine! Like wheat in the high wind falling!

Crossley led the doctor and Krauss along a wide street.

"What goes on?" he asked naively.

"Beast, you know well enough," whispered the doctor fiercely. "My wife,
my beauteous Thickel, her blonde hair'll be a ruin!"

"Speak roughly to me again," threatened Crossley, "and I'll hurl myself
before this next bus."

"Don't, no!" cried Krauss, seizing his arm. To the doctor: "Fool. Is
your wife more important than hanging?"

"My wife is good as your wife," snarled the doctor. "Katrina and her
henna rinse!"

Crossley led the way into a building and up in an elevator. They walked
on a terrace on the thirteenth floor.

"It is a riot," moaned the doctor, surveying the street below. "The
women storm the beauty salons demanding help. I wonder if my Thickel is
with them, raging?"

In huge clusters the women of the city held their heads in their hands
as if they might topple and fall plunk on the ground. They argued,
phoned husbands in high government circles, sent telegrams to the
Leader, pummeled and kicked a bald man who laughed at them in their
misery.

"Pardon me, Krauss," said Crossley. "There." He flicked a constellation
of dandruff from Krauss' lapel.

"My hair," said Krauss, in realization. "My lovely hair!"

"Will you sign peace terms, or shall I jump from this building and let
you and your wrathful wife become bald?"

"My wife," sobbed Krauss. "Bald! Ah, heaven!"

"Turn over all secret officers of your plan, admit your guilt in full,
and the attack will stop. You will keep your hair," said Crossley. "And
cure me of my fatal illness."

"That," said Krauss, "we cannot do. The illness, I mean. But the peace
terms, ah, my sweet, balding wife, the peace terms, I reluctantly
accept. Peace, it is."

"Fine," said Crossley. "But, one more term." He grabbed the doctor,
held him out over the edge, as if to drop him.

"Stop!" Frantically, the doctor squirmed. "I lied! We did nothing to
you. It was psychological. You'd have _worried_ to death in ten
years!"

Crossley was so surprised he let go.

He and Krauss stared down at the dwindling doctor, falling.

"I didn't really mean to drop him," said Crossley.

"_Squish_," murmured Krauss, a moment later, looking down.

Crossley pushed his jet-ship homeward.

"Edith, it's over! The music'll be off in an hour!"

"Darling!" she radioed. "How'd you do it?"

"Simple. They thought it enough to irritate people. That was their
error. They didn't strike psychologically deep enough. Their type of
irritant only touched surfaces, made people mad--"

"And sleepy."

"But we attacked their ego, which was something else. People can stand
radios, confetti, gum and mosquitoes, but they won't take baldness or
turning yellow. It was unthinkable!"

Edith ran to meet him as he landed. The radio still hung in the garden,
drifting, singing.

"What do you make it, now?" he cried.

She kissed him.

Pulling back she counted swiftly inside her head, glanced at the
floating radio and said, automatically:

"That makes two thousand three hundred and _ten_!"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE IRRITATED PEOPLE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
